# RELIABILITY IMPACT OF MICROGRID AND USE IN (MV) DIS-TRIBUTION ELECTRICAL NETWORK
## ABSTRACT
Security and adequacy are two prominent issues among other issues in the electrical power systems at present time. Heterogeneous geographic terrain needed diverse types of power distribution networks carrying different levels of network reliability. Power system disturbances are responsible for power interruption to the network hence interrupted power sup-ply causes poor network reliability. It has been acknowledged that microgrid is one of the possible ways ahead to enhance grid reliability. This thesis compiles the research results of the reliability impact of the microgrid in a medium voltage grid. It also shows the reliability impact of using Battery Energy storage (BESS) as a microgrid backup source in the gird. Microgrid position, microgrid source capacity (BESS size), network fault rate and network fault duration have been also considered for deep reliability analysis of a grid.

Finnish power distribution network data has been used in this research to assess the reliability impact of the microgrid. Comparative research study over the network during grid-connected mode and microgrid mode has been studied in this research. In all cases, simulation results prove that microgrid has a significant impact on the reliability of the network. This research also illustrates that the microgrid position influences overall grid reliability during microgrid operation. This research also deals with the impact of microgrid number and microgrid source capacity over the grid reliability. Increased microgrid numbers in the net-work improve overall network reliability. On the other hand, grid reliability increases with respect to the increased microgrid source capacity too. 
